COSC345 Assignment 1 - Report
Rory Jackson, Anthony Dickson, Johnny Mann

We are building an Android app that allows people to learn the aural component of music theory, geared mostly towards the visually
impaired. The idea is that the app will start with some pitch matching exercises which will involve matching your vocal pitch to some 
kind of musical tone. Then the exercises will become more complicated involving the person singing theoretical musical intervals, then 
small melodies and later slightly bigger melodies.
  
The app will be built by Rory Jackson, Anthony Dickson and Johnny Mann.
  
We will build the app with Java so that it can run on Android devices with built-in microphones. We will most likely use the Fast Fourier
Transform algorithm for pitch detection. It will allow us to convert microphone input data to hertz so that we can figure out
the note the person is singing (or the closest note) based on the frequency of each note (for example, A is 440Hz in the fourth octave). 
This will be used in conjunction with music theory exercises, which we can write ourselves based on our own personal music theory 
knowledge. We are going to design the user interface so that visually impaired users can easily use our application. The user interface 
will have two parts: the GUI and the AUI (Aural User Interface). The AUI will include voice-based navigation and text-to-speech.
  
Our app will run on Android. The application will ideally run on any Android device with an in-built microphone (e.g. phones, 
tablets, etc). We will aim to support Android versions 4.x onwards.
  
We estimate that the app will take the rest of the academic year to build. The alpha version will be ready before the end of this 
semester. This will include the pitch matching functionality and a simple user interface. The beta version will be ready before the 
end of the second semester.
  
The disability we are supporting is visual impairment. By visually impaired we mean anyone who has trouble reading (e.g. blind people, 
dyslexic people, etc). Visually impaired people have trouble using Android devices because they cannot see or understand what is on the 
screen. Traditional aural theory and singing apps require the user to to sing a pitch and then match while only providing on-screen 
affirmation and guidance. This app will guide the user with a pitch that tells them where vocal pitch is in relation to the target pitch 
and provide positive affirmation. Users will be able to use the app purely with their voice and their ears.
